Welcome back.
In this lesson we're gonna create our API endpoint for displaying
all questions.
We're also going to be looking at eloquent api resource
and see how to implement that in building our restful
API.
Now since we've already had all logic regard to
question stuff in question controller so actually to
create api endpoints such as displaying all the questions
showing a particular question and stuff
like that is much much easier here we got two options.
First we copy the existing controller
and make some changes on it.
For example instead of returning the view we are going
to return json data or the second option is create
our brand new controller in new  namespace grab the
logic or method one by one from existing controller
and make some changes on it.
In this case I'm going to be choosing the second option
just for a question controller because I think
it's much easier for me to explain the new concept.
You could choose the first option if you want but I highly recommend you to follow me choosing the second
option letter we'll be using the first option for the rest of the controllers.
All right let's go ahead and open up our terminal and here let me isolate my work today in a new branch.
So let's create a new controller by saying:
php artisan make:controller
We are gonna put our API controllers in a folder
called API so API followed by the controller name
In this case we're gonna call it questions controller
just like we already have in our app.
We can specify -m followed by question model to tell artisan comment to automatically use the question
model. Then we gonna specify the --api to tell
artisan to generate some api methods boiler
plate in that controller.
Basically this flag is almost the same with resource
flag except it excludes the create and edit method.
Hit return.
Next
We need to define a new route for
our API so let's pull open api.php
then inside here let's define a brand new route
which refer to our newly created controller.
Note that all routes that we define in here will be prefixed
by `api` without need to specify the `api` explicitly.
So here for instance we've defined questions
here we'll have `/api/questions`
We can verify the routes in our terminal head back to
our terminal then type: php artisan route:list
--path=api all right
Here we have three routes
our brand new api routes that we just created
token and user which come from here.
Now let's pull up our old question controller
let's copy everything inside
this index method
we can now open our brand new controller api question
question controller go to index method and
paste the code inside here.
Here instead of returning a view now we need to return
all of these questions in json here we can simply
return this question variable and laravel will
take care of the response stuff for us
now to test this endpoint we could test in our browser.
So let's head over to our browser and enter
localhost eight thousand
api questions
So there we go
we have a bunch of questions in json format so
basically all `get` endpoints or endpoint that need
get method can be tested in our browser but
it's best practice to test all of our api endpoints
in REST client such as postmen.
So let's do that
Let's head over to postman and here before I make a test request because we need to make some test requests
for question resource
so let's firstly create a folder here
here
I call it questions
then inside this folder
Let's create a new request let me save
this request as display all questions
the method is gonna be get and the URL is going to
be as http localhost eight thousand api questions
Now if we hit the send button
here we'll get data back.
All right
so now that we have our API endpoint to display all questions let's continue the next video and learn
about eloquent API resources.